Standardizing SQL function docs (#12091)
apache/druid: docs/querying/sql.md

|`APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_BUILTIN(expr)`|_Usage note:_ consider using `APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_DS_HLL` instead, which offers better accuracy in many cases.<br/><br/>Counts distinct values of `expr` using Druid's built-in "cardinality" or "hyperUnique" aggregators, which implement a variant of [HyperLogLog](http://algo.inria.fr/flajolet/Publications/FlFuGaMe07.pdf). The `expr` can be a string, number, or prebuilt hyperUnique column. This is always approximate, regardless of the value of "useApproximateCountDistinct".|

> |`APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_DS_HLL(expr, [lgK, tgtHllType])`|Counts distinct values of expr, which can be a regular column or an [HLL sketch](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-hll.md) column. Results are always approximate, regardless of the value of [`useApproximateCountDistinct`](#connection-context). The `lgK` and `tgtHllType` parameters here are, like the equivalents in the [aggregator](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-hll.md#aggregators), described in the HLL sketch documentation. The [DataSketches extension](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-extension.md) must be loaded to use this function.   See also `COUNT(DISTINCT expr)`.  |`0`|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_DS_HLL(expr, [lgK, tgtHllType])`|Counts distinct values of `expr`, which can be a regular column or an [HLL sketch](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-hll.md) column. Results are always approximate, regardless of the value of [`useApproximateCountDistinct`](#connection-context). The `lgK` and `tgtHllType` parameters here are, like the equivalents in the [aggregator](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-hll.md#aggregators), described in the HLL sketch documentation. The [DataSketches extension](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-extension.md) must be loaded to use this function.   See also `COUNT(DISTINCT expr)`.  |`0`|
```

> |`APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_DS_THETA(expr, [size])`|Counts distinct values of expr, which can be a regular column or a [Theta sketch](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-theta.md) column. Results are always approximate, regardless of the value of [`useApproximateCountDistinct`](#connection-context).  The `size` parameter is described in the Theta sketch documentation. The [DataSketches extension](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-extension.md) must be loaded to use this function. See also `COUNT(DISTINCT expr)`. |`0`|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_DS_THETA(expr, [size])`|Counts distinct values of `expr`, which can be a regular column or a [Theta sketch](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-theta.md) column. Results are always approximate, regardless of the value of [`useApproximateCountDistinct`](#connection-context).  The `size` parameter is described in the Theta sketch documentation. The [DataSketches extension](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-extension.md) must be loaded to use this function. See also `COUNT(DISTINCT expr)`. |`0`|
```

> |`DS_HLL(expr, [lgK, tgtHllType])`|Creates an [HLL sketch](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-hll.md) on the values of expr, which can be a regular column or a column containing HLL sketches. The `lgK` and `tgtHllType` parameters are described in the HLL sketch documentation. The [DataSketches extension](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-extension.md) must be loaded to use this function.|`'0'` (STRING)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`DS_HLL(expr, [lgK, tgtHllType])`|Creates an [HLL sketch](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-hll.md) on the values of `expr`, which can be a regular column or a column containing HLL sketches. The `lgK` and `tgtHllType` parameters are described in the HLL sketch documentation. The [DataSketches extension](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-extension.md) must be loaded to use this function.|`'0'` (STRING)|
```

|`SUM(expr)`|Sums numbers.|`null` if `druid.generic.useDefaultValueForNull=false`, otherwise `0`|
|`MIN(expr)`|Takes the minimum of numbers.|`null` if `druid.generic.useDefaultValueForNull=false`, otherwise `9223372036854775807` (maximum LONG value)|
|`MAX(expr)`|Takes the maximum of numbers.|`null` if `druid.generic.useDefaultValueForNull=false`, otherwise `-9223372036854775808` (minimum LONG value)|
|`AVG(expr)`|Averages numbers.|`null` if `druid.generic.useDefaultValueForNull=false`, otherwise `0`|

> |`APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT(expr)`|Counts distinct values of `expr` using an approximate algorithm. The `expr` can be a regular column or a prebuilt sketch column.<br><br>The specific algorithm that will be used depends on the value of [`druid.sql.approxCountDistinct.function`](../configuration/index.md#sql). By default, this is `APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_BUILTIN`. If the [DataSketches extension](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-extension.md) is loaded, this can also be set to `APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_DS_HLL` or `APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_DS_THETA`.<br><br>When run on prebuilt sketch columns, the sketch column type must match the implementation of this function. For example: when `druid.sql.approxCountDistinct.function` is set to `APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_BUILTIN`, this function will be able to run on prebuilt hyperUnique columns, but not on prebuilt HLLSketchBuild columns.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT(expr)`|Counts distinct values of `expr` using an approximate algorithm. The `expr` can be a regular column or a prebuilt sketch column.<br><br>The specific algorithm depends on the value of [`druid.sql.approxCountDistinct.function`](../configuration/index.md#sql). By default, this is `APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_BUILTIN`. If the [DataSketches extension](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-extension.md) is loaded, you can set it to `APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_DS_HLL` or `APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_DS_THETA`.<br><br>When run on prebuilt sketch columns, the sketch column type must match the implementation of this function. For example: when `druid.sql.approxCountDistinct.function` is set to `APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_BUILTIN`, this function runs on prebuilt hyperUnique columns, but not on prebuilt HLLSketchBuild columns.|
```

> |`APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_BUILTIN(expr)`|_Usage note:_ consider using `APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_DS_HLL` instead, which offers better accuracy in many cases.<br/><br/>Counts distinct values of `expr` using Druid's built-in "cardinality" or "hyperUnique" aggregators, which implement a variant of [HyperLogLog](http://algo.inria.fr/flajolet/Publications/FlFuGaMe07.pdf). The `expr` can be a string, number, or prebuilt hyperUnique column. This is always approximate, regardless of the value of "useApproximateCountDistinct".|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_BUILTIN(expr)`|_Usage note:_ consider using `APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_DS_HLL` instead, which offers better accuracy in many cases.<br/><br/>Counts distinct values of `expr` using Druid's built-in "cardinality" or "hyperUnique" aggregators, which implement a variant of [HyperLogLog](http://algo.inria.fr/flajolet/Publications/FlFuGaMe07.pdf). The `expr` can be a string, a number, or a prebuilt hyperUnique column. This is always approximate, regardless of the value of `useApproximateCountDistinct`.|
```

|`APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_DS_HLL(expr, [lgK, tgtHllType])`|Counts distinct values of `expr`, which can be a regular column or an [HLL sketch](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-hll.md) column. Results are always approximate, regardless of the value of [`useApproximateCountDistinct`](#connection-context). The `lgK` and `tgtHllType` parameters here are, like the equivalents in the [aggregator](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-hll.md#aggregators), described in the HLL sketch documentation. The [DataSketches extension](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-extension.md) must be loaded to use this function.   See also `COUNT(DISTINCT expr)`.  |`0`|

> |`APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_DS_THETA(expr, [size])`|Counts distinct values of `expr`, which can be a regular column or a [Theta sketch](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-theta.md) column. Results are always approximate, regardless of the value of [`useApproximateCountDistinct`](#connection-context).  The `size` parameter is described in the Theta sketch documentation. The [DataSketches extension](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-extension.md) must be loaded to use this function. See also `COUNT(DISTINCT expr)`. |`0`|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`APPROX_COUNT_DISTINCT_DS_THETA(expr, [size])`|Counts distinct values of `expr`, which can be a regular column or a [Theta sketch](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-theta.md) column. Results are always approximate, regardless of the value of [`useApproximateCountDistinct`](#connection-context). The `size` parameter is described in the Theta sketch documentation. The [DataSketches extension](../development/extensions-core/datasketches-extension.md) must be loaded to use this function. See also `COUNT(DISTINCT expr)`. |`0`|
```

|`PI`|Constant Pi.|
|`ABS(expr)`|Absolute value.|
|`CEIL(expr)`|Ceiling.|
|`EXP(expr)`|e to the power of `expr`.|
|`FLOOR(expr)`|Floor.|
|`LN(expr)`|Logarithm (base e).|
|`LOG10(expr)`|Logarithm (base 10).|
|`POWER(expr, power)`|`expr` raised to the power of `power`.|
|`SQRT(expr)`|Square root.|
|`TRUNCATE(expr, [digits])`|Truncate `expr` to a specific number of decimal digits. If digits is negative, then this truncates that many places to the left of the decimal point. Digits defaults to zero if not specified.|

> |`TRUNC(expr, [digits])`|Synonym for `TRUNCATE`.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`TRUNC(expr, [digits])`|Alias for `TRUNCATE`.|
```

|`ROUND(expr, [digits])`|`ROUND(x, y)` would return the value of the x rounded to the y decimal places. While x can be an integer or floating-point number, y must be an integer. The type of the return value is specified by that of x. y defaults to 0 if omitted. When y is negative, x is rounded on the left side of the y decimal points. If `expr` evaluates to either `NaN`, `expr` will be converted to 0. If `expr` is infinity, `expr` will be converted to the nearest finite double. |
|`x + y`|Addition.|
|`x - y`|Subtraction.|
|`x * y`|Multiplication.|
|`x / y`|Division.|
|`MOD(x, y)`|Modulo (remainder of x divided by y).|
|`SIN(expr)`|Trigonometric sine of an angle `expr`.|
|`COS(expr)`|Trigonometric cosine of an angle `expr`.|
|`TAN(expr)`|Trigonometric tangent of an angle `expr`.|
|`COT(expr)`|Trigonometric cotangent of an angle `expr`.|
|`ASIN(expr)`|Arc sine of `expr`.|
|`ACOS(expr)`|Arc cosine of `expr`.|
|`ATAN(expr)`|Arc tangent of `expr`.|
|`ATAN2(y, x)`|Angle theta from the conversion of rectangular coordinates (x, y) to polar * coordinates (r, theta).|

> |`DEGREES(expr)`|Converts an angle measured in radians to an approximately equivalent angle measured in degrees|
> |`RADIANS(expr)`|Converts an angle measured in degrees to an approximately equivalent angle measured in radians|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`DEGREES(expr)`|Converts an angle measured in radians to an approximately equivalent angle measured in degrees.|
|`RADIANS(expr)`|Converts an angle measured in degrees to an approximately equivalent angle measured in radians.|
```

|Function|Notes|
|--------|-----|
|<code>x &#124;&#124; y</code>|Concat strings `x` and `y`.|
|`CONCAT(expr, expr...)`|Concats a list of expressions.|
|`TEXTCAT(expr, expr)`|Two argument version of `CONCAT`.|
|`STRING_FORMAT(pattern, [args...])`|Returns a string formatted in the manner of Java's [String.format](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/lang/String.html#format-java.lang.String-java.lang.Object...-).|
|`LENGTH(expr)`|Length of `expr` in UTF-16 code units.|

> |`CHAR_LENGTH(expr)`|Synonym for `LENGTH`.|
> |`CHARACTER_LENGTH(expr)`|Synonym for `LENGTH`.|
> |`STRLEN(expr)`|Synonym for `LENGTH`.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`CHAR_LENGTH(expr)`|Alias for `LENGTH`.|
|`CHARACTER_LENGTH(expr)`|Alias for `LENGTH`.|
|`STRLEN(expr)`|Alias for `LENGTH`.|
```
```suggestion
|`CHAR_LENGTH(expr)`|Synonym for `LENGTH`.|
|`CHARACTER_LENGTH(expr)`|Synonym for `LENGTH`.|
|`STRLEN(expr)`|Synonym for `LENGTH`.|
```

|`LOOKUP(expr, lookupName)`|Look up `expr` in a registered [query-time lookup table](lookups.md). Note that lookups can also be queried directly using the [`lookup` schema](#from).|
|`LOWER(expr)`|Returns `expr` in all lowercase.|
|`PARSE_LONG(string, [radix])`|Parses a string into a long (BIGINT) with the given radix, or 10 (decimal) if a radix is not provided.|

> |`POSITION(needle IN haystack [FROM fromIndex])`|Returns the index of needle within haystack, with indexes starting from 1. The search will begin at fromIndex, or 1 if fromIndex is not specified. If the needle is not found, returns 0.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`POSITION(needle IN haystack [FROM fromIndex])`|Returns the index of needle within haystack, with indexes starting from 1. The search will begin at `fromIndex`, or 1 if `fromIndex` is not specified. If the needle is not found, returns 0.|
```

|`REGEXP_LIKE(expr, pattern)`|Returns whether `expr` matches regular expression `pattern`. The pattern may match anywhere inside `expr`; if you want to match the entire string instead, use the `^` and `$` markers at the start and end of your pattern. Similar to [`LIKE`](#comparison-operators), but uses regexps instead of LIKE patterns. Especially useful in WHERE clauses.|
|`CONTAINS_STRING(expr, str)`|Returns true if the `str` is a substring of `expr`.|
|`ICONTAINS_STRING(expr, str)`|Returns true if the `str` is a substring of `expr`. The match is case-insensitive.|
|`REPLACE(expr, pattern, replacement)`|Replaces pattern with replacement in `expr`, and returns the result.|

> |`STRPOS(haystack, needle)`|Returns the index of needle within haystack, with indexes starting from 1. If the needle is not found, returns 0.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`STRPOS(haystack, needle)`|Returns the index of `needle` within `haystack`, with indexes starting from 1. If the `needle` is not found, returns 0.|
```

|`SUBSTRING(expr, index, [length])`|Returns a substring of `expr` starting at index, with a max length, both measured in UTF-16 code units.|
|`RIGHT(expr, [length])`|Returns the rightmost length characters from `expr`.|
|`LEFT(expr, [length])`|Returns the leftmost length characters from `expr`.|

> |`SUBSTR(expr, index, [length])`|Synonym for SUBSTRING.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`SUBSTR(expr, index, [length])`|Alias for SUBSTRING.|
```

|`BTRIM(expr, [chars])`|Alternate form of `TRIM(BOTH chars FROM expr)`.|
|`LTRIM(expr, [chars])`|Alternate form of `TRIM(LEADING chars FROM expr)`.|
|`RTRIM(expr, [chars])`|Alternate form of `TRIM(TRAILING chars FROM expr)`.|
|`UPPER(expr)`|Returns `expr` in all uppercase.|
|`REVERSE(expr)`|Reverses `expr`.|
|`REPEAT(expr, [N])`|Repeats `expr` N times|
|`LPAD(expr, length, [chars])`|Returns a string of `length` from `expr` left-padded with `chars`. If `length` is shorter than the length of `expr`, the result is `expr` which is truncated to `length`. The result will be null if either `expr` or `chars` is null. If `chars` is an empty string, no padding is added, however `expr` may be trimmed if necessary.|
|`RPAD(expr, length, [chars])`|Returns a string of `length` from `expr` right-padded with `chars`. If `length` is shorter than the length of `expr`, the result is `expr` which is truncated to `length`. The result will be null if either `expr` or `chars` is null. If `chars` is an empty string, no padding is added, however `expr` may be trimmed if necessary.|

> ### Time functions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Date and time functions
```

|`CASE WHEN boolean_expr1 THEN result1 \[ WHEN boolean_expr2 THEN result2 ... \] \[ ELSE resultN \] END`|Searched CASE.|
|`NULLIF(value1, value2)`|Returns NULL if value1 and value2 match, else returns value1.|
|`COALESCE(value1, value2, ...)`|Returns the first value that is neither NULL nor empty string.|
|`NVL(expr, expr-for-null)`|Returns `expr-for-null` if `expr` is null (or empty string for string type).|

> |`BLOOM_FILTER_TEST(expr, serialized-filter)`|Returns true if the value of `expr` is contained in the Base64-serialized bloom filter. See the [Bloom filter extension](../development/extensions-core/bloom-filter.md) documentation for additional details.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`BLOOM_FILTER_TEST(expr, serialized-filter)`|Returns true if the value of `expr` is contained in the Base64-serialized Bloom filter. See the [Bloom filter extension](../development/extensions-core/bloom-filter.md) documentation for additional details.|
```

|Function|Notes|
|--------|-----|
|`ARRAY[expr1, expr2, ...]`|Constructs a SQL ARRAY literal from the expression arguments, using the type of the first argument as the output array type.|
|`MV_FILTER_ONLY(expr, arr)`|Filters multi-value `expr` to include only values contained in array `arr`.|
|`MV_FILTER_NONE(expr, arr)`|Filters multi-value `expr` to include no values contained in array `arr`.|
|`MV_LENGTH(arr)`|Returns length of array expression.|
|`MV_OFFSET(arr, long)`|Returns the array element at the 0 based index supplied, or null for an out of range index.|
|`MV_ORDINAL(arr, long)`|Returns the array element at the 1 based index supplied, or null for an out of range index.|
|`MV_CONTAINS(arr, expr)`|Returns 1 if the array contains the element specified by `expr`, or contains all elements specified by `expr` if `expr` is an array, else 0.|

> |`MV_OVERLAP(arr1, arr2)`|Returns 1 if arr1 and arr2 have any elements in common, else 0|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`MV_OVERLAP(arr1, arr2)`|Returns 1 if arr1 and arr2 have any elements in common, else 0.|
```

|`MV_OFFSET_OF(arr, expr)`|Returns the 0 based index of the first occurrence of `expr` in the array, or `-1` or `null` if `druid.generic.useDefaultValueForNull=false` if no matching elements exist in the array.|
|`MV_ORDINAL_OF(arr, expr)`|Returns the 1 based index of the first occurrence of `expr` in the array, or `-1` or `null` if `druid.generic.useDefaultValueForNull=false` if no matching elements exist in the array.|
|`MV_PREPEND(expr, arr)`|Adds `expr` to `arr` at the beginning, the resulting array type determined by the type of the array.|
|`MV_APPEND(arr1, expr)`|Appends `expr` to `arr`, the resulting array type determined by the type of the first array.|
|`MV_CONCAT(arr1, arr2)`|Concatenates 2 arrays, the resulting array type determined by the type of the first array.|

> |`MV_SLICE(arr, start, end)`|Return the subarray of `arr` from the 0 based index start(inclusive) to end(exclusive), or `null`, if start is less than 0, greater than length of arr or less than end.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`MV_SLICE(arr, start, end)`|Returns the subarray of `arr` from the 0 based index start(inclusive) to end(exclusive), or `null`, if start is less than 0, greater than length of arr or less than end.|
```
